







                                                  AUUG, SA Chapter
                                                  PO Box 460
                                                  Echunga SA 5153
                                                  Australia
                                                  5 June 2000

        The Hon John Olsen
        Premier
        Parliament House
        ADELAIDE SA 5000






     Dear Premier

     We, the undersigned members and associates of the South Aus-
     tralian Chapter of the Australasian UNIX Users Group  (AUUG)
     are  writing  to you to express our concerns about your Gov-
     ernment's proposed ``Classification (Publications, Films and
     Computer  Games)  (Miscellaneous) Amendment Bill 2000''.  As
     people who deal with the Internet on a daily basis, and  who
     to a large extent define the Internet in South Australia, we
     believe that the proposed legislation in  its  current  form
     would  be inappropriate, ineffective and unfair.  We believe
     that it will create special case legislation  for  Internet-
     based activities that is significantly harsher than existing
     legislation.

     In  ``Information  Economy  2002:  Delivering  the  future''
     (``IE2002''), your government set out a vision of South Aus-
     tralia as an information-enabled society, stating  that  the
     ``Information  Economy is ushering in a new approach to com-
     munication and interaction that will  ultimately  impact  on
     everyone--economically, commercially, socially and cultural-
     ly. It's dramatically changing the old,  familiar  order  of
     things, but it's also offering new opportunities to grow, to
     prosper, to benefit socially and culturally, and to enjoy''.
     (http://www.ie2002.sa.gov.au/plan/statement.htm)

     Just  five  months later, your government tabled legislation
     that is inconsistent with the primary objective of IE2002 of
     ensuring ``that all South Australians are encouraged and en-
     abled to participate in the  Information  Economy,  locally,
     nationally and globally''.

     The  Online Services section of the Classification (Publica-
     tions, Films and Computer Games)  (Miscellaneous)  Amendment
     Bill 2000 (``the Bill'') makes it a criminal offence to make
     information available to adults online that  is  legal  off-
     line,  i.e.  ``matter unsuitable for minors''. The Bill thus












     mandates that  the  knowledge  base  readily  accessible  to
     adults on South Australian Internet sites will be restricted
     to information suitable for minors.  According to  the  OFLC
     guidelines  this  means, among other things, that discussion
     of ``adult themes'' including ``suicide, crime,  corruption,
     marital  problems, emotional trauma, drug and alcohol depen-
     dency, death and serious illness, racism, religious issues''
     will  be  illegal  online unless expressed in a ``discreet''
     manner, that is, ``with little or no  detail  and  generally
     brief''  (see OFLC Guidelines for the MA classification, the
     highest rating that would be  legal  online  in  South  Aus-
     tralia).

     Your  government rightly said in IE2002 that the Information
     Economy is ``dramatically changing the old,  familiar  order
     of  things'',  yet  it appears your government's response to
     the challenges of a global communications medium is to apply
     the old, familiar order of things--a classification and cen-
     sorship regime designed some three decades ago  for  an  en-
     tirely  different  medium,  the public exhibition of movies.
     Not all aspects are familiar however. Serious criminal  jus-
     tice  issues  also arise indicating intent to treat ordinary
     South Australians and businesses providing  information  on-
     line  less  fairly under criminal law than off-line informa-
     tion providers.  The Bill:

     o criminalises inability to foresee a non-unanimous decision
       of the Commonwealth Classification Board,

     o denies  Information  Economy participants the right to ob-
       tain a classification prior to providing  information  on-
       line, as is granted to off-line publishers,

     o fails to require that information be classified before po-
       lice commence prosecution,

     o does not appear to require that  ``Internet  content''  be
       classified  at all in order to prove an allegation, unlike
       in the case of an allegation about a film, publication  or
       computer game,

     o subjects  Information  Economy  participants  to a maximum
       penalty double that applicable to off-line publishers,

     o is inconsistent with Commonwealth law and more restrictive
       than  Internet  censorship  laws in Victoria, Western Aus-
       tralia and the Northern Territory (others have no Internet
       specific censorship laws yet), and

     o invites  constant  enquiry  as  to the particular State or
       Territory laws at issue as the law  does  not  specify  in
       which jurisdiction an offence (making available or supply)
       takes place, i.e. the location of: the  host  server;  the
       content  provider; or the person who downloads the materi-












       al, each of which may be in different States.

     While the Bill provides that online  publishers  may  defend
     themselves  in a court by proving that access was subject to
     a restricted access system, by the time a case reaches court
     the defendant will have had his/her reputation tarnished and
     will have incurred substantial  legal  costs.   Furthermore,
     restricted  access  systems require information providers to
     collect personal information about visitors  that  goes  far
     beyond proof of age (credit card, passport or birth certifi-
     cate etc.) prior to granting access. The Bill disregards the
     costs of collecting such information, the delay and inconve-
     nience to intending visitors and provides no privacy protec-
     tion whatsoever for visitors, notwithstanding that in IE2002
     your government noted that ``The emerging Information Econo-
     my  calls  for  a  legislative and institutional environment
     that gives ... consumers ... confidence in the integrity and
     security   of   ...   personal   information''.  Information
     providers are likely to avoid the risks and costs  and  pub-
     lish  outside South Australia, and intending visitors to any
     sites that are made available in South Australia are  likely
     to turn to overseas sites rather than reveal personal infor-
     mation.

     Rather than encourage uptake of SA Connect for provision  of
     information online, the Bill encourages South Australians to
     avail themselves of free overseas sites where they can  pub-
     lish  equally  easily  with  relative impunity from criminal
     prosecution resulting from the unpredictable  and  inconsis-
     tent  decisions of the members of the Commonwealth Classifi-
     cation Board, Review Board and police.

     Virtual communities in South Australia are also likely to be
     adversely  affected since the Bill covers content placed not
     only on the Web, but also archived mailing  lists  and  mes-
     sages  to newsgroups, etc. Individuals, educational institu-
     tions, non-profit organisations, businesses, and governments
     who  ``make  available''  archival  facilities  in their Web
     space for public discussion, to which the  whole  world  can
     contribute,  would  be  liable  to  criminal prosecution for
     ``making available'' material unsuitable for  minors  should
     participants  post such information. The SA Government would
     risk prosecution under its own laws in relation to its Talk-
     ing Point forum
     (http://www.talkingpoint.sa.gov.au/forum/Forum35/HTML/000016.html)
     unless public servants pre-screen messages, or  monitor  the
     forum on a minute by minute basis deleting any material that
     might be deemed unsuitable for minors.

     It is doubtful that the SA Government will be successful  in
     its intent to ``encourage libraries, educational and cultur-
     al institutions and companies to make  information  such  as
     reference  materials  ...  widely  available online'' nor in
     maintaining SA's ``branded node in the academic  world,  and












     in  the  world  of the arts and ideas'' when artworks, ideas
     and research papers published in the online environment must
     be expressed in a non-detailed and brief manner suitable for
     minors. Information collections from an art gallery, library
     or university which would typically be considered a perfect-
     ly legal resource off-line, if published online may well at-
     tract  prosecution online due to the application of more re-
     strictive censorship guidelines designed  for  entertainment
     in the form of movies.

     Your  government  could best demonstrate a commitment to the
     vision set out in IE2002 by not only talking about  'virtual
     communities' but by ensuring that South Australian individu-
     als, institutions and businesses are able to participate  in
     the  Information  Economy  without fear of prosecution under
     criminal law due to inability to foresee a non-unanimous de-
     cision of the Commonwealth Censorship Board.

     While  the objective of protecting children is laudable, the
     proposed law will not achieve that aim as the vast  quantity
     of information online globally that is unsuitable for minors
     is outside the reach of South Australian law.  Most  of  the
     information  that would be illegal online in South Australia
     is protected speech in other parts of the  world.  No  other
     Australian  jurisdiction  has  criminalised the provision of
     ``matter unsuitable for minors'' to adults online. No  other
     Western democracy has implemented laws similar to those pro-
     posed.

     As stated in IE2002 ``In an increasingly  borderless  world,
     the Internet provides the tools to interconnect people, both
     locally and  globally,  around  their  common  interests--be
     those interests economic, cultural or social''. The most ef-
     fective and workable approach to any problem that may  arise
     from  the  free flow of information in a borderless world is
     not the age old response of censorship,  it  is  Information
     Economy literacy.

     We call on the South Australian Government to introduce as a
     matter of priority the  education  component  of  IE2002  of
     equipping students and all citizens ``for life-long learning
     through effective use of information technology  and  online
     services''.

     A  demonstrated  commitment  to  equipping South Australians
     with information literacy skills and to manage their own ac-
     cess  to  online  information,  and  that of minors in their
     care, will be most effective in protecting children and  as-
     sist  South Australia to capture attention as envisaged ``as
     a hot spot within  the  global  Information  Economy--giving
     South  Australia a new prominence on the world map, creating
     a branded identity in a crowded global village''. Responding
     to  the challenges of the Information Economy by application
     of a decades old censorship regime designed  for  movies  is












     likely  to lead to South Australia becoming ``irrelevant and
     relegated to the periphery of global activity'' as a  result
     of  being  seen to have a government that does not ``get the
     Internet''.

     We urge you to  discard  unjust  and  unworkable  censorship
     plans  and  ensure  that South Australia continues along the
     path envisioned in IE2002.




















































